Ein wissenschaftliches Werkzeug

Martin Heidegger, "Sein und Zeit", p. 74:
Zur Alltäglichkeit des In-der-Welt-seins gehören Modi des Besorgens, die das besorgte Seiende 
so begegnen lassen, daß dabei die Weltmäßigkeit des Innerweltlichen zum Vorschein kommt. Das 
nächstzuhandene Seiende kann im Besorgen als unverwendbar, als nicht zugerichtet für seine bestimmte 
Verwendung angetroffen werden. Werkzeug stellt sich als beschädigt heraus, das Material als ungeeignet. 
Zeug is hierbei in jedem Falle zuhanden. Was aber die Unverwendbarkeit entdeckt, ist nicht das 
hinsehende Feststellen von Eigenschaften, sondern die Umsicht des gebrauchenden Umgangs. In solchem 
Entdecken der Unverwendbarkeit fällt das Zeug auf. Das Auffallen gibt das zuhandene Zeug in einer 
gewissen Unzuhandenheit. Darin liegt aber: das Unbrauchbare liegt nur da -, es zeigt sich als Zeugding, 
das so und so aussieht und in seiner Zuhandenheit als so aussehendes ständig auch vorhanden war. Die 
pure Zuhandenheit meldet sich am Zeug, um sich jedoch wieder in die Zuhandenheit des Besorgtem, d.h. 
des in der Wiederinstandsetzung Befindlichen, zurückzuziehen. Diese Vorhandenheit des Unbrauchbaren 
entbehrt noch nicht schlechthin jeder Zuhandenheit, das so vorhandene Zeug ist noch nicht ein nur 
irgendwo vorkommendes Ding. Die Beschädigung des Zeugs ist noch nicht eine bloße Dingveränderung, ein 
lediglich vorkommender Wechsel von Eigenschaften an einem Vorhandenen. 

From The Romance of Empire and the Politics of Self-Love, by T. de Zengotita (Harper's, July/2003):
Wielding things in general, wielding things in competition, wielding things in an emergency, in conflict. 
Primordial stuff. But intricate and artificial as well. The skill and discipline required, all the more 
so under pressure, never more so than in combat. The most violent ecstasis given form by technique. Exquisite 
balance at the outer limit. Is the urge for that balance irrepressible in us?

Skill with implements, hard or soft, is tantamount to fusion. One literally derives purpose from the tool. 
And the purposes inherent in tools fuse with those of other tools and, through them, with objectives - with 
the mission. [...]

To attend an implement with skill in the service of a mission is to belong, to be part of a greater whole, the 
aim of Romanticism fulfilled. 

The goal:
1) a C++-based molecular assembler that has a nice, integrated, portable 
graphical interface (probably using Qt) and writes its output to some SD 
file for further study and manipulation. 
2) for this graphical interface, the following controls will be needed:
internode distance (double) slider
number of molecules to create (integer) textbox (ensure > 0)
steric radius (double) slider
number of pharmacophoric points (integer) spinbox
output filename (string) pushbutton
number of initial deletion attempts (integer) spinbox
percentage deleted in initial phase (double) slider
use pharmacophoric point as start for path selection (integer) radiobutton
number of secondary deletion attempts (integer) spinbox
number of quaternary carbons (integer) spinbox
number of four-ring carbons (integer) spinbox
number of rings (integer) spinbox
percentage of methyls to be eliminated (double) slider
minimum number of rings (integer) spinbox
maximum number of rings (integer) spinbox (ensure that max >= min)
strip axial methyls (integer) checkbox
create aromatic rings (integer) checkbox
create double bonds (integer) checkbox
create triple bonds (integer) checkbox (grayed out if dbonds not checked)
create penta-atomic rings (integer) checkbox
create amides, esters and sulfonamides (integer) checkbox (grayed out if dbonds not checked)
substitute oxygen atoms (integer) checkbox
substitute nitrogen atoms (integer) checkbox
substitute sulfur atoms (integer) checkbox
substitute functional groups (P, F, Cl) (integer) checkbox
number of initial deletion iterations (integer) spinbox
number of path selection iterations (integer) spinbox
number of secondary deletion iterations (integer) spinbox
number of demethylation/rationalization iterations (integer) spinbox
number of desaturation/heteroatom substitution iterations (integer) spinbox
create molecules pushbutton
exit pushbutton

Once user hits "create molecules", the app throws up a dialog box containing a label saying 
how many molecules have been created, a progress bar showing how close we are to the desired 
number and a "cancel" pushbutton to exit the computation. 

3) Problems:
a) write Python script to read parameters from HTML form via CGI, and 
   create new record in job table of Werkzeug database
b) write Python script to check job table of Werkzeug database and 
   if it finds a new job, start up a MASM process with job id
c) Javascript code to check input values from HTML form
d) Python script to accept job id from HTML form and snoop into the 
   Werkzeug database to give info out as HTML document 

4) Other ideas:
a) add multithreading (pthreads or OpenMP) to Werkzeug code
b) add parallel (via MPI-2) support to Werkzeug
c) consider allowing ligand-based models for the pharmacophore


Database Considerations:
1) Postgresql database called "alchemy" with two tables, "parameters" and "compound", having 
   structure
   parameters -> pid (PRIMARY,serial)
                 max_attempts (integer) 
                 nrings (integer)
                 nc4 (integer)
                 nc4rings (integer)
                 min_rings (integer)
                 max_rings (integer)
                 n_hardening (integer)
                 n_initial (integer)
                 n_secondary (integer)
                 n_path (integer)
                 max_secondary (integer)
                 n_demethylate (integer)
                 n_desaturate (integer)
                 npharm (integer)
                 path_hardening (boolean)
                 subs_oxy (boolean)
                 subs_sul (boolean)
                 subs_nit (boolean)
                 subs_fun (boolean)
                 create_exotic (boolean)
                 create_penta (boolean)
                 create_double (boolean)
                 create_triple (boolean)
                 kill_axial (boolean)
                 percent (double)
                 percent_methyl (double)
                 bond_length (double)
                 pharm_radius (double)
                 pharm_fname (string)

   compound -> id (PRIMARY,serial)
               pid (integer, refers to parameters table)
               opstring (string)
               rms (double)
               raw_structure (string)
               minimized_structure (string)
